So with all the base setup out of the way let's now finally create our first web component.
Our first custom element.
And for that in the tooltip jazz Well I will create a new class and classes allow us to build blueprints
for JavaScript objects.
And it's such a blueprint that we will in the end wire up with our own custom HD him LTE.
Now you can give that class any name you want and I'll name it tooltip.
And now here's one important part to be usable as a custom element.
You need to extend something with deeks tense keyword.
Which means you have to build your class based on some other base class.
And here we will use a base class that's built into the browser.
We'll use the H team l element class here.
Now this is a class an object built into the browser not defined by us.
And we extend that and every custom element has to extend that.
It's still an independent and autonomous custom element though I will show you extended built in elements
later.
There you will not extend t h t metal element but more specific versions of it.
If you extend this you have a basic vanilla Greenfield H metal element you build on your own which does
not depend on any built in element.
This is simply a base element you always need to extend and now in here you will put all the logic that
makes up your custom element.
The question just is what does this mean.
Put all the logic in there well let's say this tooltip component should in the end show us a tooltip
button a tooltip icon and when we hover over that I can.
We want to present a tooltip to the user and for this we can define a couple of things in this custom
element to make this work.
And the first thing we can add is a constructor constructor is also a default method name which is detected
by javascript and JavaScript will automatically execute this method.
So this function inside of a class when ever this class is instantiated which means whenever a new object
based on that class is created and later these new objects will be our own custom H HTML tags in D Enix
H2 outfall.
We haven't added them yet.
We'll do so later.
For now let's start simple and let's simply add a console log statement here.
It is working and this should theoretically be output in the console whenever a new tooltip class is
created or a new object.
Now this is just a javascript class.
How can we now create our own H L tag for that we use another object that is built into javascript and
that's the custom elements object.
This is an object which allows us to register our own custom elements and we do this by using the define
method here.
So this is a function on this object which you can execute all built into javascript this defined method
takes at least two arguments the first one is a string and there you define your own age html tag.
Now there are some rules for that tag name.
For example it has to be a single word which has to consist of at least two parts separated by a dash.
So my dash tooltip is a valid name just tooltip alone is not the reason for that rule is that all built
in H HTML elements like button or P or edge ones are single words.
And by forcing you to have double words so to say you are forced to not accidentally overwrite one of
the built in elements.
Also possibly future added elements so therefore you have to have a dash in that name and it has to
be a dash I underscore is not allowed for example so it has to be a dash and therefore here we could
have my tooltip.
Now the prefix here at the beginning is totally up to you can be my tooltip.
It could be tooltip tooltip but in reality you want to choose a prefix here which kind of guarantees
that your web component your custom element has a unique tack so that if the users using your custom
elements in their app because maybe you shared them with the web so that users using your custom elements
have a very low chance of having clashing custom elements from different libraries.
Therefore actually my tooltip is not that great often you use your company name there or a shortcut
for your company name like a cad for academy and in my case in your case it should be your company or
your initials like am asked for maximum Schwab similar in my case so I will go with you see for a Udemy
course but in the end choose a prefix here which combined with the part after it kind of guarantees
that this is a unique name.
So this is the H to mail TAC show is now by the way you can also have multiple dashes in multiple parts
at least one dash needs to be included.
The second argument you pass to define then is your javascript class that holds the logic for this custom
element.
So in our case this is the tooltip class here.
So this class we could find up here.
We pass this as a second argument with that we're telling javascript Hey whenever you detect this H
html tag in an H table file you want to instantiate this class you want to create a new object based
on that class and you want to use that object for all the logic behind that custom element and now with
Dad and distilled hip jazz file being imported here we can actually add the U.S. tooltip element here
in the body of our index H Tim Al file and it will not do much it should print this though.
So now let's save both files.
Make sure you don't forget that.
And then let me simply run this by double clicking the index each time I'll file.
Now we'll not see anything on the page because we haven't added any visuals.
But if you open your developer tools under the new developer developer tools or with the shortcut you
find there.
Then you should be able
to open the console part there and you can ignore the error.
You'll be getting.
You should see it is working though.
This shows this proves that this code here runs and it can only run when an object is created based
on this class.
We never do that but we define our own element and therefore this element has to be responsible for
this code running.
And indeed it is now to get rid of this error.
There is one rule we have to follow when treating our own elements and adding a constructor.
You always have to call super first and there.
This is a built in method you can call inside of a class which will execute the constructor of the base
class you're extending and this is required.
So if you add super here and you then reload this page you will not see this error again clear your
console before reloading to make sure that you clear all past errors.
So this is our first custom element added.
Obviously it's not doing anything useful but we have our own working age team tech.
Now we can start adding more logic to it.